# Manual of **commsdsl2emscripten**

## Overview
The **commsdsl2emscripten** is a code generation tool provided by this project.
It generates CMake project that can be used to build the protocol definition
C++ code, generated by the **commsdsl2comms**, into the javascript / wasm using
using the [emscripten](https://emscripten.org/) toolchain.

## Command Line Arguments
The **commsdsl2emscripten** utility has multiple command line arguments, please
use `-h` option for the full list as well as default option values.

```
$> /path/to/commsdsl2emscripten -h
```
Below is a summary of most important ones.

### Selecting Schema Files
Selecting of the schema files is very similar to how it is done for the
[commsdsl2comms](Manual_commsdsl2comms.md#selecting-schema-files).

List all the schema files at the end of the command line arguments:

```
$> /path/to/commsdsl2emscripten <args> schema1.xml schema2.xml schema3.xml ...
```
The schema files will be processed **in order** of their listing.

When the input files are listed in the single file:
```
$> /path/to/commsdsl2emscripten -i schemas_list.txt
```

When a schemas listing file contains *relative* paths to the schema files use
`-p` option to specify the absolute path prefix.
```
$> /path/to/commsdsl2emscripten -i schemas_list.txt -p /path/to/schemas/dir
```

### Output Directory
By default the output CMake project is written to the current directory. It
is possible to change that using `-o` option.
```
$> /path/to/commsdsl2emscripten -o /some/output/dir schema.xml
```

### Injecting Custom Code
The **commsdsl2emscripten** utility allows injection of custom code into the
generated project in case the default code is incorrect and/or incomplete. For this
purpose `-c` option with path to directory containing custom code snippets is used.
```
$> /path/to/commsdsl2emscripten -c /path/to/custom/code/snippets schema.xml
```
Please read [Custom Code](#custom-code) section below for more details on
how to format and where to place the custom code.

### Changing Main Namespace
The code generated by the **commsdsl2emscripten** depends on the code generated by
the **commsdsl2comms**. If the code generated by the **commsdsl2comms**
[changed its main namespace](Manual_commsdsl2comms.md#changing-main-namespace)
then it is required to change the main namespace for the code generated by
the **commsdsl2emscripten** as well.
```
$> /path/to/commsdsl2emscripten -n other_ns_name schema.xml
```

### Selecting Interface
When the protocol defines multiple interfaces, there is a need to select only
one that is applicable to the generated solution. To select appropriate
interface use `--force-interface` command line option.

```
$> /path/to/commsdsl2emscripten --force-interface Interface1 ...
```

### Using Subsets of Messages
The code generated by the **commsdsl2comms** contains definitions of all the
messages defined in the schema file(s). When the protocol is too big and/or
there are messages which are inapplicable to the created solution, they can be
excluded from the bindings support. To do so there is a need to
create a separate file listing all the messages IDs (using their full reference
strings including namespaced if applicable). Then the file with the messages
list can be provided using the `--messages-list` command line option.

```
$> /path/to/commsdsl2emscripten --messages-list /path/to/messages/list/file ...
```

### Providing Generated Code Version
It is possible to set a [semantic version](https://semver.org/) of the generated
code using `-V` option. The specified version string is expected to be the same
as one used with **commsdsl2comms**.
```
$> /path/to/commsdsl2emscripten -V 1.2.3 schema.xml
```

## Custom Code
As was already mentioned earlier, **commsdsl2emscripten** utility allows injection
of custom code snippets in the generated code.
To better understand what code is injected where, it is recommended to
read through the [WebAssemblySupport.md](WebAssemblySupport.md)
documentation page first.

Similar to the [custom code injection defined for the commsdsl2comms](Manual_commsdsl2comms.md##custom-code)
the relevant code snippets are expected to reside in the same relative path as the
generated code and to have specific extensions. Most useful are

- **.inc** - Add extra include statements.
- **.public** - Add extra public code to the class definition.
- **.private** - Add extra private code to the class definition.
- **.append** - Append code at the end of the file.

When new functions have been added (especially in the `.public` file) there
might be a need to add the functions to the bindings list in the generated `.cpp` file.
To do so use `.bind` extension.

For example:
- `cc_emscripten/demo/field/SomeField.cpp.bind`

